So it's been really nice to be massively off the grid for the last week. Just stumbled by the one amazing internet cafe in Accra, so I thought I would stop in and write.

Yesterday was election day in Ghana for both parliamentary and presidential positions. It happens once every 4 years and this is only the 5th election in the country's history. More importantly though, in 2000, there was a peaceful elected change in power for the first time in Ghana, a very rare occurence in Africa. This year again the incumbent's term is up and so the elections is highly contested (there are 8 candidates running).

First off disclaimer, we are safe. Staying far away from any polling spots or expressing any opinions. If anyone asks us anything, we just say "Obama!" and everyone smiles.  

Political advertisements put the US to shame. At the end of the presidential election in the US it seems like there were ads everywhere. In Ghana they literally are. Every street has huge fresh billboards. Houses and shacks are covered in posters. On the streets, there are boys selling flags for the main two parties. The tv stations constantly are showing programs about the candidates. Even right now I have an ad on Facebook for one of the candidates. 

But a lot of the advertising is in totally different forms. Each party has a dance that represents their platform. One party throws there ends out in front for "moving forward." several others have appropriated the Obama "change" into a circular hand motion. 

Voting itself is also a big process. You have to go back to your home village to vote which means that the traffic arteries, clogged even during midday, break down during the election (the reason I'm stuck in Accra at the moment). 

The polls are much simpler than in the US, particularly the absolute insanity of the california ballot. Each citizen is given a sheet of paper with a 3x8 table. The first column is a picture of each candidate. The next is the logo of the party. And the last is open. To vote, you stick your right pinky in ink and mark a candidate. The ink stays on your finger three months so you can't vote again. (It looks like there is going to be a run off elections, so I wonder how they will do it since everyone's pinky is already inked.)

Perhaps the most confusing part is today, the day after. There is not clear winner, but neither is there any kind of trustworthy information. There are about 20 newspapers here, and they all have declared starkly contradictory results "Blah wins by 20 percent!" "Too close to call" "Third party spoils everything." 

Despite what seems to me like total chaos, everyone is following the results. Everywhere you walk around the streets of the city you here radios shouting from beached taxis announcing results. And man, if you thought the US political coverage is confusing, try to figure out what is happening here. The way they announce the results is by listing out the exact vote tallies for every polling station in the entire country. "In Osu Castle Poll, NPP - 230, PNC - 4, NDC- 420, CPP- 4, DPP - Nil, RDC- 10, Failed ballots - 4". And there are thousands of polls around the country, so this is pretty much just all noise. It reminds me of listening to the Snow Delays on the radio growing up. 

To end on a positive note, it's amazing how seriously everyone here talks about the importance of peace in the elections. Everyone we've talked to is like- this is election is important, but what matters most is peace and setting an example for Africa. The television stations seem to be really trying to keep everything civil and calm, and just chill it out when things start getting intense. It makes you even more impressed that change in power in the US is a pretty common and expected thing. It's definitely non-trivial. 
