One of the most terrifyingly wonderful parts of the Accra is the car traffic throughout the city. It's a big place, about the size of philadelphia, spread out over three large sections. And it is hot - stickily, meltingly, nasty hot. So while it's a fine city to walk around (particularly at night), most people travel about in cars. Private cars are incredibly expensive though, and even if you can afford one, I'd doubt you'd want learn to drive in a city that makes New York
driving seem Palo Alto. 

Most of the road is taken up by taxis and tro-tros. Taxis work pretty similar to the US - give the most reckless drivers little yellow cars and reward them for speeding around the city. 

Tro-Tros are entirely their own thing. Part subway, part sketchy hitchiking, tro-tros are these large modified vans that roam around the city eating up passengers off the street. They fit about 15 people very intimately, including a driver and a boy who collects money. The boy's job is to reach his head out the window and scream the final destination at startled pedestrians and make the appropriate hand signal. (tro-tro handsignals are super neat, point one finger out spin it around means "Nkrumah Circle," one finger up pointing to sky is "37 Station," pointing at you is "Accra tema central," of course a sign would solve this problem, but that is way less fun.) The one fatal flaw of the tro-tro is everytime someone has to get out, on average 4 other people have to get out with them because only one doors opens. 

An entire economy has evolved around tro-tro traffic. Nkrumah circle, the main hub, is a blah place, but it has a large street market of people selling defective chinese toys, pirated vcds, and coconuts to people walking around the circle to their connection. Even more common are vendors selling things to people stuck on a tro-tro in traffic. On every intersection there are 5 or so people with water, fried plaintains, or small consumer items going window to window. My friend said that she needed to buy a globe for her classroom, but couldn't find one anywhere. She asked a friend, who recommended that she just wait until she saw a boy selling one of the street. Sure enough, one day someone came by hawking a bunch of globes.

Some more tro tro adventures - 

<ul>
<li>One day we were stuck in particularly heavy traffic and our driver was getting really annoyed. His solution was to pull off onto the margin drive two block then turn off onto an empty field. He drove over the field, and then tried to pull back onto the road. Unfortunately, that part of the road had oopen sewers, so he got halfway over and Wham! one of the wheel fell into the sewer. In order to go any further, we all had to get out of the van, and push it out of this sewer. 
</li>

<li> I was on a tro-tro moving pretty slowly, when the guy gets on standing up facing backwards. He starts talking in Twi, and at first I just assumed he was talking to his friend, but he continued talking pretty loudly. Then he holds up this large package of that says Worm-Zap on it, and starts passing them around. Then he jumps off the moving tro-tro. Only afterwards did I realize that it had been a moving Infomercial for this anti-worm medication. 
</li>

<li> Grace and I were going to the university one day, and she was sitting in the front seat by the window, and I was in the back. This cab driver pulls up to her, and is like "majoo, obruni, ... aware," she answers him and her responds, she points back at me, and even in the tro-tro starts cracking up. Then the cab driver swerves across two lanes of traffic. The conversation went. 
 
  Cabbie: Hey, white girl, do you want to get married?
  Grace: Oh sorry sir, but I already am married. 
  Cabbie: Well, it doesn't matter, I don't see your husband around.
  Grace: Uh, my husband is in the back of the tro-tro.
  
  I'm still kind of curious if the drive-by marriage proposal is ever successful.
</li>
</ul>

In one of my favorite adventures in Ghana, I found the birthplace and hospital for all the tro-tros. I was walking around entirely lost, and I stumbled upon this shop that sold car parts. It was pretty neat, since most shops in Accra sell food, or knick-knacks, or clothing. Then I realized that all the stores on the block sold car parts. Then I realized that all the side streets only sold car parts. There were at least 200 shops in all directions only focusing on cars. 

Each shop focused on a single part of the car. There were shock stores, stores with tires piled 20 feet high, steering wheels, engine shops, multiple stores dedicated to radios and bumpers, overturned cars everywhere. I wandered around trying to figure out what was going on, mainly why every car shop in the entire city was crammed in a 5-block radius. 

I eventually met a rasta guy selling dashboards (what kind of dashboard do you need? I got all kinds.) who showed me around the back of the market. Apparently it is very, very expensive to buy and sell a new car in Ghana because of transport costs, tariffs, and the general high price of luxury good. Instead, people "bring" in cars from foreign countries. This market was a kind of cannibalized graveyard of old used cars. It is more profitable for people to pull apart these cars and sell them as pieces than as full cars. 

The tro-tros themselves make a lot more sense after seeing this area. Each one looks different but they all have the same amenities. Clearly car companies are not making specialized vans for the Ghanaian light transit market, and so there is this home grown tro-tro workshop. Each van is a frankenstein of spare parts shaped similarly, but out of different old vehicles.  